At the end of the day,
it's tough to get around the problems and
complexity of representing 3D geometry using a grid,
and we saw this in 2D as well.
But remember from your work in two dimensions that you have
graphs as another option for representing your search space,
and while they may not capture every detail of the geometry of the world,
they can provide a more efficient way of expressing
the connectivity of free-space that allows you to get from one place to another.
In the previous lesson,
you saw how to use the medial axis transform to extract a graph, and in principle,
you could do the same thing in 3D but that would require you to first build a 3D grid,
and that's the thing we're trying to avoid doing.
So what's the alternative?
Well, while building an explicit model of
the free part of the configuration space can be quite expensive,
it's surprisingly cheap to evaluate if any given state is feasible or infeasible.
Given a description of the polyhedron representing a particular obstacle,
it's not hard to evaluate whether a given state is inside the obstacle or not.
With that, the surprisingly effective strategy is to sample states at random,
then check to see if these samples like
inside obstacles and keep track of all the states that are in free space.
Let's look at an example.
Here is my environment and here are some obstacles,
I can scatter a bunch of points randomly throughout
the environment that represent candidate states I need to evaluate.
I'll throw out all the states that are
inside obstacles and what I'm left with is a set of states that could
function as nodes in a graph of
my search space without having had to explicitly construct a grid.
In general, figuring out whether a point in
3D space is in collision with obstacles is not a trivial problem,
but what we'll do here is take advantage of the fact
that in the two-and-a-half-D map you'll be using in the project,
the polyhedra are represented as polygons in 2D with an associated height.
So for a given sample,
X, Y, Z, you can check to see if the X,
Y component lies within the ground plane polygon,
and if so whether the Z component is above the height of the obstacle.
If the point is not inside any of the obstacle ground plane polygons,
or if it's inside the ground plane polygon of an obstacle,
but the Z component is above the height of that obstacle,
then you know you're okay and the state lies in free space.
Otherwise, you know, that point is not feasible.
In the next exercise,
you'll get a chance to implement random sampling of
an environment using a two-and-a-half-D map representation.